11PROJECT RISK MANAGEMENTProject Risk Management includes the processes of conducting risk management planning, identification, analysis, response planning, response implementation, and monitoring risk on a project. The objectives of project risk management are to increase the probability and/or impact of positive risks and to decrease the probability and/or impact of negative risks, in order to optimize the chances of project success.The Project Risk Management processes are:11.1 Plan Risk Management—The process of defining how to conduct risk management activities for a project.11.2 Identify Risks—The process of identifying individual project risks as well as sources of overall project risk, and documenting their characteristics.11.3 Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis—The process of prioritizing individual project risks for further analysis or action by assessing their probability of occurrence and impact as well as other characteristics.11.4 Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis—The process of numerically analyzing the combined effect of identified individual project risks and other sources of uncertainty on overall project objectives.11.5 Plan Risk Responses—The process of developing options, selecting strategies, and agreeing on actions to address overall project risk exposure, as well as to treat individual project risks.11.6 Implement Risk Responses—The process of implementing agreed-upon risk response plans.11.7 Monitor Risks—The process of monitoring the implementation of agreed-upon risk response plans, tracking identified risks, identifying and analyzing new risks, and evaluating risk process effectiveness throughout the project.Figure 11-1 provides an overview of the Project Risk Management processes. The Project Management Risk processes are presented as discrete processes with defined interfaces while, in practice, they overlap and interact in ways that cannot be completely detailed in this PMBOK® Guide. Figure 11-1. Project Risk Management Overview.1 Inputs.1 Project charter.2 Project management plan.3 Project documents.4  Enterprise environmental    factors.5 Organizational process    assets.2 Tools & Techniques.1 Expert judgment.2 Data analysis.3 Meetings.3 Outputs.1 Risk management planProject RiskManagement Overview11.1 PlanRisk Management.1 Inputs.1 Project management plan.2 Project documents.3 Agreements.4 Procurement     documentation.5 Enterprise environmental    factors.6 Organizational process    assets.2 Tools & Techniques.1 Expert judgment.2 Data gathering  .3 Data analysis.4 Interpersonal and team    skills.5 Prompt lists.6 Meetings. 3 Outputs.1 Risk register.2 Risk report.3 Project documents    updates11.2 Identify Risks.1 Inputs.1 Project management plan.2 Project documents.3 Enterprise environmental    factors.4 Organizational process    assets .2 Tools & Techniques.1 Expert judgment.2 Data gathering.3 Data analysis.4 Interpersonal and team    skills.5 Risk categorization.6 Data representation.7 Meetings.3 Outputs.1 Project documents updates11.4 PerformQuantitative Risk Analysis1 Inputs.1 Project management plan .2 Project documents.3 Enterprise environmental    factors.4 Organizational process    assets.2 Tools & Techniques.1 Expert judgment .2 Data gathering.3 Interpersonal and team    skills.4 Strategies for threats.5 Strategies for opportunities.6 Contingent response     strategies.7 Strategies for overall    project risk.8 Data analysis.9 Decision making.3 Outputs.1 Change requests.2 Project management plan    updates.3 Project documents updates11.5 PlanRisk Responses.1 Inputs.1 Project management plan.2 Project documents.3 Organizational process     assets.2 Tools & Techniques.1 Expert judgment.2 Interpersonal and team    skills.3 Project management     information system.3 Outputs.1 Change requests.2 Project documents updates11.6 ImplementRisk Responses .1 Inputs.1 Project management plan.2 Project documents .3 Work performance data .4 Work performance reports.2 Tools & Techniques.1 Data analysis.2 Audits.3 Meetings.3 Outputs .1 Work performance    information.2 Change requests.3 Project management plan    updates.4 Project documents updates.5 Organizational process     assets updates11.7 Monitor Risks.1 Inputs.1 Project management plan.2 Project documents.3 Enterprise environmental    factors.4 Organizational process    assets.2 Tools & Techniques.1 Expert judgment.2 Data gathering.3 Interpersonal and team    skills.4 Representations of    uncertainty.5 Data analysis.3 Outputs.1 Project documents    updates11.3 PerformQualitative Risk AnalysisKEY CONCEPTS FOR PROJECT RISK MANAGEMENTAll projects are risky since they are unique undertakings with varying degrees of complexity that aim to deliver benefits. They do this in a context of constraints and assumptions, while responding to stakeholder expectations that may be conﬂicting and changing. Organizations should choose to take project risk in a controlled and intentional manner in order to create value while balancing risk and reward.Project Risk Management aims to identify and manage risks that are not addressed by the other project management processes. When unmanaged, these risks have the potential to cause the project to deviate from the plan and fail to achieve the defined project objectives. Consequently, the effectiveness of Project Risk Management is directly related to project success.Risk exists at two levels within every project. Each project contains individual risks that can affect the achievement of project objectives. It is also important to consider the riskiness of the overall project, which arises from the combination of individual project risks and other sources of uncertainty. Project Risk Management processes address both levels of risk in projects, and these are defined as follows:Individual project risk is an uncertain event or condition that, if it occurs, has a positive or negative effect on one or more project objectives.Overall project risk is the effect of uncertainty on the project as a whole, arising from all sources of uncertainty including individual risks, representing the exposure of stakeholders to the implications of variations in project outcome, both positive and negative.Individual project risks can have a positive or negative effect on project objectives if they occur. Project Risk Management aims to exploit or enhance positive risks (opportunities) while avoiding or mitigating negative risks (threats). Unmanaged threats may result in issues or problems such as delay, cost overruns, performance shortfall, or loss of reputation. Opportunities that are captured can lead to benefits such as reduced time and cost, improved performance, or reputation.Overall project risk can also be positive or negative. Management of overall project risk aims to keep project risk exposure within an acceptable range by reducing drivers of negative variation, promoting drivers of positive variation, and maximizing the probability of achieving overall project objectives. Risks will continue to emerge during the lifetime of the project, so Project Risk Management processes should be conducted iteratively. Risk is initially addressed during project planning by shaping the project strategy. Risk should also be monitored and managed as the project progresses to ensure that the project stays on track and emergent risks are addressed.In order to manage risk effectively on a particular project, the project team needs to know what level of risk exposure is acceptable in pursuit of the project objectives. This is defined by measurable risk thresholds that reﬂect the risk appetite of the organization and project stakeholders. Risk thresholds express the degree of acceptable variation around a project objective. They are explicitly stated and communicated to the project team and reﬂected in the definitions of risk impact levels for the project.TRENDS AND EMERGING PRACTICES IN PROJECT RISK MANAGEMENTThe focus of project risk management is broadening to ensure that all types of risk are considered, and that project risks are understood in a wider context. Trends and emerging practices for Project Risk Management include but are not limited to:Non-event risks. Most projects focus only on risks that are uncertain future events that may or may not occur. Examples of event-based risks include: a key seller may go out of business during the project, the customer may change the requirement after design is complete, or a subcontractor may propose enhancements to the standard operating processes.There is an increasing recognition that non-event risks need to be identified and managed. There are two main types of non-event risks: Variability risk. Uncertainty exists about some key characteristics of a planned event or activity or decision. Examples of variability risks include: productivity may be above or below target, the number of errors found during testing may be higher or lower than expected, or unseasonal weather conditions may occur during the construction phase. Ambiguity risk. Uncertainty exists about what might happen in the future. Areas of the project where imperfect knowledge might affect the project’s ability to achieve its objectives include: elements of the requirement or technical solution, future developments in regulatory frameworks, or inherent systemic complexity in the project.Variability risks can be addressed using Monte Carlo analysis, with the range of variation reﬂected in probability distributions, followed by actions to reduce the spread of possible outcomes. Ambiguity risks are managed by defining those areas where there is a deficit of knowledge or understanding, then filling the gap by obtaining expert external input or benchmarking against best practices. Ambiguity is also addressed through incremental development, prototyping, or simulation.Project resilience. The existence of emergent risk is becoming clear, with a growing awareness of so-called unknowable-unknowns. These are risks that can only be recognized after they have occurred. Emergent risks can be tackled through developing project resilience. This requires each project to have: Right level of budget and schedule contingency for emergent risks, in addition to a specific risk budget for known risks; Flexible project processes that can cope with emergent risk while maintaining overall direction toward project goals, including strong change management; Empowered project team that has clear objectives and that is trusted to get the job done within agreed-upon limits; Frequent review of early warning signs to identify emergent risks as early as possible; and Clear input from stakeholders to clarify areas where the project scope or strategy can be adjusted in response to emergent risks.Integrated risk management. Projects exist in an organizational context, and they may form part of a program or portfolio. Risk exists at each of these levels, and risks should be owned and managed at the appropriate level. Some risks identified at higher levels will be delegated to the project team for management, and some project risks may be escalated to higher levels if they are best managed outside the project. A coordinated approach to enterprise-wide risk management ensures alignment and coherence in the way risk is managed across all levels. This builds risk efficiency into the structure of programs and portfolios, providing the greatest overall value for a given level of risk exposure. TAILORING CONSIDERATIONSBecause each project is unique, it is necessary to tailor the way Project Risk Management processes are applied. Considerations for tailoring include but are not limited to:Project size. Does the project’s size in terms of budget, duration, scope, or team size require a more detailed approach to risk management? Or is it small enough to justify a simplified risk process?Project complexity. Is a robust risk approach demanded by high levels of innovation, new technology, commercial arrangements, interfaces, or external dependencies that increase project complexity? Or is the project simple enough that a reduced risk process will suffice?Project importance. How strategically important is the project? Is the level of risk increased for this project because it aims to produce breakthrough opportunities, addresses significant blocks to organizational performance, or involves major product innovation?Development approach. Is this a waterfall project, where risk processes can be followed sequentially and iteratively, or does the project follow an agile approach where risk is addressed at the start of each iteration as well as during its execution?Tailoring of the Project Risk Management processes to meet these considerations is part of the Plan Risk Management process, and the outcomes of tailoring decisions are recorded in the risk management plan.CONSIDERATIONS FOR AGILE/ADAPTIVE ENVIRONMENTSHigh-variability environments, by definition, incur more uncertainty and risk. To address this, projects managed using adaptive approaches make use of frequent reviews of incremental work products and cross-functional project teams to accelerate knowledge sharing and ensure that risk is understood and managed. Risk is considered when selecting the content of each iteration, and risks will also be identified, analyzed, and managed during each iteration.Additionally, the requirements are kept as a living document that is updated regularly, and work may be reprioritized as the project progresses, based on an improved understanding of current risk exposure.