11.2.3 IDENTIFY RISKS: OUTPUTS11.2.3.1 RISK REGISTERThe risk register captures details of identified individual project risks. The results of Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis Plan Risk Responses Implement Risk Responses and Monitor Risks are recorded in the risk register as those processes are conducted throughout the project. The risk register may contain limited or extensive risk information depending on project variables such as size and complexity.On completion of the Identify Risks process the content of the risk register may include but is not limited to:List of identified risks. Each individual project risk is given a unique identifier in the risk register. Identified risks are described in as much detail as required to ensure unambiguous understanding. A structured risk statement may be used to distinguish risks from their causes and their effects.Potential risk owners. Where a potential risk owner has been identified during the Identify Risks process the risk owner is recorded in the risk register. This will be confirmed during the Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis process.List of potential risk responses. Where a potential risk response has been identified during the Identify Risks process it is recorded in the risk register. This will be confirmed during the Plan Risk Responses process.Additional data may be recorded for each identified risk depending on the risk register format specified in the risk management plan. This may include: a short risk title risk category current risk status one or more causes one or more effects on objectives risk triggers events or conditions that indicate that a risk is about to occur WBS reference of affected activities and timing information when was the risk identified when might the risk occur when might it no longer be relevant and what is the deadline for taking action. 11.2.3.2 RISK REPORTThe risk report presents information on sources of overall project risk together with summary information on identified individual project risks. The risk report is developed progressively throughout the Project Risk Management process. The results of Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis Plan Risk Responses Implement Risk Responses and Monitor Risks are also included in the risk report as those processes are completed. On completion of the Identify Risks process information in the risk report may include but is not limited to:Sources of overall project risk indicating which are the most important drivers of overall project risk exposure; andSummary information on identified individual project risks such as number of identified threats and opportunities distribution of risks across risk categories metrics and trends etc.Additional information may be included in the risk report depending on the reporting requirements specified in the risk management plan.11.2.3.3 PROJECT DOCUMENTS UPDATESProject documents that may be updated as a result of this process include but are not limited to:Assumption log. Described in Section 4.1.3.2. During the Identify Risks process new assumptions may be made new constraints may be identified and existing assumptions or constraints may be revisited and changed. The assumption log should be updated with this new information.Issue log. Described in Section 4.3.3.3. The issue log should be updated to capture any new issues uncovered or changes in currently logged issues.Lessons learned register. Described in Section 4.4.3.1. The lessons learned register can be updated with information on techniques that were effective in identifying risks to improve performance in later phases or other projects.