11.5.1 PLAN RISK RESPONSES: INPUTS11.5.1.1 PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLANDescribed in Section 4.2.3.1. Project management plan components include but are not limited to:Resource management plan. Described in Section 9.1.3.1. The resource management plan is used to help determine how resources allocated to agreed-upon risk responses will be coordinated with other project resources.Risk management plan. Described in Section 11.1.3.1. Risk management roles and responsibilities and risk thresholds are used in this process.Cost baseline. Described in Section 7.3.3.1. The cost baseline has information on the contingency fund that is allocated to respond to risks. 11.5.1.2 PROJECT DOCUMENTSProject documents that can be considered as inputs for this process include but are not limited to:Lessons learned register. Described in Section 4.4.3.1. Lessons learned about effective risk responses used in earlier phases of the project are reviewed to determine if similar responses might be useful during the remainder of the project.Project schedule. Described in Section 6.5.3.2. The schedule is used to determine how agreed-upon risk responses will be scheduled alongside other project activities.Project team assignments. Described in Section 9.3.3.2. Project team assignments can show the resources that can be allocated to agreed-upon risk responses.Resource calendars. Described in Section 9.2.1.2. Resource calendars identify when potential resources are available to be allocated to agreed-upon risk responses.Risk register. Described in Section 11.2.3.1. The risk register contains details of individual project risks that have been identified and prioritized and for which risk responses are required. The priority level for each risk can help to guide the selection of appropriate risk responses. For example high-priority threats or opportunities may require priority action and highly proactive response strategies. Threats and opportunities in the low-priority zone may not require proactive management action beyond being placed in the risk register as part of the watch list or adding a contingency reserve.The risk register identifies the nominated risk owner for each risk. It may also contain preliminary risk responses identified earlier in the Project Risk Management process. The risk register may provide other data on identified risks that can assist in planning risk responses including root causes risk triggers and warning signs risks requiring responses in the near term and risks where a need for additional analysis has been identified.Risk report. Described in Section 11.2.3.2. The risk report presents the current level of overall risk exposure of the project that will inform selection of the risk response strategy. The risk report may also list individual project risks in priority order and provide additional analysis of the distribution of individual project risks that may inform risk response selection.Stakeholder register. Described in Section 13.1.3.1. The stakeholder register identifies potential owners for risk responses. 11.5.1.3 ENTERPRISE ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS
The enterprise environmental factors that can influence the Plan Risk Responses process include but are not limited
to the risk appetite and thresholds of key stakeholders.
11.5.1.4 ORGANIZATIONAL PROCESS ASSETS
The organizational process assets that can influence the Plan Risk Responses process include but are not limited to:
 Templates for the risk management plan, risk register, and risk report;
 Historical databases; and
 Lessons learned repositories from similar projects.