11.5 PLAN RISK RESPONSESPlan Risk Responses is the process of developing options selecting strategies and agreeing on actions to address overall project risk exposure as well as to treat individual project risks. The key benefit of this process is that it identifies appropriate ways to address overall project risk and individual project risks. This process also allocates resources and inserts activities into project documents and the project management plan as needed. This process is performed throughout the project. The inputs tools and techniques and outputs of the process are depicted in Figure 11-16.  Figure 11-17 depicts the data ﬂow diagram for the process.Effective and appropriate risk responses can minimize individual threats, maximize individual opportunities, and
reduce overall project risk exposure. Unsuitable risk responses can have the converse effect. Once risks have been
identified, analyzed, and prioritized, plans should be developed by the nominated risk owner for addressing every
individual project risk the project team considers to be sufficiently important, either because of the threat it poses to the
project objectives or the opportunity it offers. The project manager should also consider how to respond appropriately to
the current level of overall project risk.
Risk responses should be appropriate for the significance of the risk, cost-effective in meeting the challenge, realistic
within the project context, agreed upon by all parties involved, and owned by a responsible person. Selecting the
optimal risk response from several options is often required. The strategy or mix of strategies most likely to be effective
should be selected for each risk. Structured decision-making techniques may be used to choose the most appropriate
response. For large or complex projects, it may be appropriate to use a mathematical optimization model or real options
analysis as a basis for a more robust economic analysis of alternative risk response strategies.
Specific actions are developed to implement the agreed-upon risk response strategy, including primary and backup
strategies, as necessary. A contingency plan (or fallback plan) can be developed for implementation if the selected
strategy turns out not to be fully effective or if an accepted risk occurs. Secondary risks should also be identified.
Secondary risks are risks that arise as a direct result of implementing a risk response. A contingency reserve is often
allocated for time or cost. If developed, it may include identification of the conditions that trigger its use.