11.7.3 MONITOR RISKS: OUTPUTS11.7.3.1 WORK PERFORMANCE INFORMATIONDescribed in Section 4.5.1.3. Work performance information includes information on how project risk management is performing by comparing the individual risks that have occurred with the expectation of how they would occur. This information indicates the effectiveness of the response planning and response implementation processes.11.7.3.2 CHANGE REQUESTSDescribed in Section 4.3.3.4. The Monitor Risks process may result in a change request to the cost and schedule baselines or other components of the project management plan. Change requests are processed for review and disposition through the Perform Integrated Change Control process Section 4.6.Change requests can include recommended corrective and preventive actions to address the current level of overall project risk or to address individual project risks.11.7.3.3 PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLAN UPDATESAny change to the project management plan goes through the organization’s change control process via a change request. This may affect any component of the project management plan. 11.7.3.4 PROJECT DOCUMENTS UPDATESProject documents that may be updated as a result of carrying out this process include but are not limited to:Assumption log. Described in Section 4.1.3.2. During the Monitor Risks process new assumptions may be made new constraints may be identified and existing assumptions or constraints may be revisited and changed. The assumption log is updated with this new information.Issue log. Described in Section 4.3.3.3. Where issues are identified as part of the Monitor Risks process these are recorded in the issue log.Lessons learned register. Described in Section 4.4.3.1. The lessons learned register is updated with any risk-related lessons learned during risk reviews so these can be used on later phases of the project or in future projects.Risk register. Described in Section 11.2.3.1. The risk register is updated with information on individual project risks generated during the Monitor Risks process. This may include adding new risks updating outdated risks or risks that were realized updating risk responses and so forth.Risk report. Described in Section 11.2.3.2. As new information becomes available through the Monitor Risks process the risk report is updated to reﬂect the current status of major individual project risks and the current level of overall project risk. The risk report may also include details of the top individual project risks agreed-upon responses and owners and conclusions and recommendations. It may also include conclusions from risk audits on the effectiveness of the risk management process.11.7.3.5 ORGANIZATIONAL PROCESS ASSETS UPDATESOrganizational process assets that are updated as a result of the Monitor Risks process include but are not limited to:Templates for the risk management plan risk register and risk report; andRisk breakdown structure.