11.2.1.1 PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLAN Described in Section 4.2.3.1. Project management plan components include but are not limited to:Requirements management plan. Described in Section 5.1.3.2. The requirements management plan may indicate project objectives that are particularly at risk.Schedule management plan. Described in Section 6.1.3.1. The schedule management plan may identify areas that are subject to uncertainty or ambiguity.Cost management plan. Described in Section 7.1.3.1. The cost management plan may identify areas that are subject to uncertainty or ambiguity.Quality management plan. Described in Section 8.1.3.1. The quality management plan may identify areas that are subject to uncertainty or ambiguity or where key assumptions have been made that might give rise to risk.Resource management plan. Described in Section 9.1.3.1. The resource management plan may identify areas that are subject to uncertainty or ambiguity or where key assumptions have been made that might give rise to risk. Risk management plan. Described in Section 11.1.3.1. The risk management plan provides information on risk-related roles and responsibilities indicates how risk management activities are included in the budget and schedule and describes categories of risk which may be expressed as a risk breakdown structure Figure 11-4.Scope baseline. Described in Section 5.4.3.1. The scope baseline includes deliverables and criteria for their acceptance some of which might give rise to risk. It also contains the WBS which can be used as a framework to structure risk identification techniques.Schedule baseline. Described in Section 6.5.3.1. The schedule baseline may be reviewed to identify milestones and deliverable due dates that are subject to uncertainty or ambiguity or where key assumptions have been made that might give rise to risk.Cost baseline. Described in Section 7.3.3.1. The cost baseline may be reviewed to identify costs or funding requirements that are subject to uncertainty or ambiguity or where key assumptions have been made that might give rise to risk.11.2.1.2 PROJECT DOCUMENTSProject documents that can be considered as inputs for this process include but are not limited to:Assumption log. Described in Section 4.1.3.2. Assumptions and constraints recorded in the assumption log may give rise to individual project risks and may also inﬂuence the level of overall project risk.Cost estimates. Described in Section 7.2.3.1. Cost estimates provide quantitative assessments of project costs ideally expressed as a range indicating the degree of risk where a structured review of the documents may indicate that the current estimate is insufficient and poses a risk to the project.Duration estimates. Described in Section 6.4.3.1. Duration estimates provide quantitative assessments of project durations ideally expressed as a range indicating the degree of risk where a structured review of the documents may indicate that the current estimate is insufficient and poses a risk to the project.Issue log. Described in Section 4.3.3.3. Issues recorded in the issue log may give rise to individual project risks and may also inﬂuence the level of overall project risk.Lessons learned register. Described in Section 4.4.3.1. Lessons learned about risk identified from earlier phases of the project are reviewed to determine whether similar risks might recur during the remainder of the project.Requirements documentation. Described in Section 5.2.3.1. Requirements documentation lists the project requirements and allows the team to identify those that could be at risk.Resource requirements. Described in Section 9.2.3.1. Resource requirements provide quantitative assessments of project resource requirements ideally expressed as a range indicating the degree of risk where a structured review of the documents may indicate that the current estimate is insufficient and poses a risk to the project.Stakeholder register. Described in Section 13.1.3.1. The stakeholder register indicates which individuals or groups might participate in identifying risks to the project. It also details those individuals who are available to act as risk owners.11.2.1.3 AGREEMENTSDescribed in Section 12.2.3.2. If the project requires external procurement of resources the agreements may have information such as milestone dates contract type acceptance criteria and awards and penalties that can present threats or opportunities.11.2.1.4 PROCUREMENT DOCUMENTATIONDescribed in Section 12.3.1.4. If the project requires external procurement of resources the initial procurement documentation should be reviewed as procuring goods and services from outside the organization may increase or decrease overall project risk and may introduce additional individual project risks. As the procurement documentation is updated throughout the project the most up to date documentation can be reviewed for risks. For example seller performance reports approved change requests and information on inspections. 11.2.1.5 ENTERPRISE ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORSThe enterprise environmental factors that can inﬂuence the Identify Risks process include but are not limited to:Published material including commercial risk databases or checklistsAcademic studiesBenchmarking results andIndustry studies of similar projects.11.2.1.6 ORGANIZATIONAL PROCESS ASSETSThe organizational process assets that can inﬂuence the Identify Risks process include but are not limited to:Project files including actual dataOrganizational and project process controlsRisk statement formats andChecklists from previous similar projects.