Identify Risks is the process of identifying individual project risks as well as sources of overall project risk and documenting their characteristics. The key benefit of this process is the documentation of existing individual project risks and the sources of overall project risk. It also brings together information so the project team can respond appropriately to identified risks. This process is performed throughout the project. The inputs tools and techniques and outputs of the process are depicted in Figure 11-6.Identify Risks considers both individual project risks and sources of overall project risk. Participants in risk
identification activities may include the following: project manager, project team members, project risk specialist
(if assigned), customers, subject matter experts from outside the project team, end users, other project managers,
operations managers, stakeholders, and risk management experts within the organization. While these personnel are
often key participants for risk identification, all project stakeholders should be encouraged to identify individual project
risks. It is particularly important to involve the project team so they can develop and maintain a sense of ownership and
responsibility for identified individual project risks, the level of overall project risk, and associated risk response actions.
When describing and recording individual project risks, a consistent format should be used for risk statements to
ensure that each risk is understood clearly and unambiguously in order to support effective analysis and risk response
development. Risk owners for individual project risks may be nominated as part of the Identify Risks process, and will
be confirmed during the Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis process. Preliminary risk responses may also be identified
and recorded and will be reviewed and confirmed as part of the Plan Risk Responses process.
Identify Risks is an iterative process, since new individual project risks may emerge as the project progresses through
its life cycle and the level of overall project risk will also change. The frequency of iteration and participation in each risk
identification cycle will vary by situation, and this will be defined in the risk management plan.