11.2.2.1 EXPERT JUDGMENT Described in Section 4.1.2.1. Expertise should be considered from individuals or groups with specialized knowledge of similar projects or business areas. Such experts should be identified by the project manager and invited to consider all aspects of individual project risks as well as sources of overall project risk based on their previous experience and areas of expertise. The experts’ bias should be taken into account in this process.11.2.2.2 DATA GATHERINGData-gathering techniques that can be used for this process include but are not limited to:Brainstorming. The goal of brainstorming see Section 4.1.2.2 is to obtain a comprehensive list of individual project risks and sources of overall project risk. The project team usually performs brainstorming often with a multidisciplinary set of experts who are not part of the team. Ideas are generated under the guidance of a facilitator either in a free-form brainstorm session or one that uses more structured techniques. Categories of risk such as in a risk breakdown structure can be used as a framework. Particular attention should be paid to ensuring that risks identified through brainstorming are clearly described since the technique can result in ideas that are not fully formed.Checklists. A checklist is a list of items actions or points to be considered. It is often used as a reminder. Risk checklists are developed based on historical information and knowledge that has been accumulated from similar projects and from other sources of information. They are an effective way to capture lessons learned from similar completed projects listing specific individual project risks that have occurred previously and that may be relevant to this project. The organization may maintain a risk checklist based on its own completed projects or may use generic risk checklists from the industry. While a checklist may be quick and simple to use it is impossible to build an exhaustive one and care should be taken to ensure the checklist is not used to avoid the effort of proper risk identification. The project team should also explore items that do not appear on the checklist. Additionally the checklist should be reviewed from time to time to update new information as well as remove or archive obsolete information.Interviews. Individual project risks and sources of overall project risk can be identified by interviewing experienced project participants stakeholders and subject matter experts. Interviews see Section 5.2.2.2 should be conducted in an environment of trust and confidentiality to encourage honest and unbiased contributions.11.2.2.3 DATA ANALYSISData analysis techniques that can be used for this process include but are not limited to:Root cause analysis. Root cause analysis see Section 8.2.2.2 is typically used to discover the underlying causes that lead to a problem and develop preventive action. It can be used to identify threats by starting with a problem statement for example the project might be delayed or over budget and exploring which threats might result in that problem occurring. The same technique can be used to find opportunities by starting with a benefit statement for example early delivery or under budget and exploring which opportunities might result in that benefit being realized.Assumption and constraint analysis. Every project and its project management plan are conceived and developed based on a set of assumptions and within a series of constraints. These are often already incorporated in the scope baseline and project estimates. Assumption and constraint analysis explores the validity of assumptions and constraints to determine which pose a risk to the project. Threats may be identified from the inaccuracy instability inconsistency or incompleteness of assumptions. Constraints may give rise to opportunities through removing or relaxing a limiting factor that affects the execution of a project or process.SWOT analysis. This technique examines the project from each of the strengths weaknesses opportunities and threats SWOT perspectives. For risk identification it is used to increase the breadth of identified risks by including internally generated risks. The technique starts with the identification of strengths and weaknesses of the organization focusing on either the project organization or the business area in general. SWOT analysis then identifies any opportunities for the project that may arise from strengths and any threats resulting from weaknesses. The analysis also examines the degree to which organizational strengths may offset threats and determines if weaknesses might hinder opportunities.Document analysis. Described in Section 5.2.2.3. Risks may be identified from a structured review of project documents including but not limited to plans assumptions constraints previous project files contracts agreements and technical documentation. Uncertainty or ambiguity in project documents as well as inconsistencies within a document or between different documents may be indicators of risk on the project. 11.2.2.4 INTERPERSONAL AND TEAM SKILLSInterpersonal and team skills that can be used for this process includes but are not limited to facilitation see Section 4.1.2.3. Facilitation improves the effectiveness of many of the techniques used to identify individual project risks and sources of overall project risk. A skilled facilitator can help participants remain focused on the risk identification task follow the method associated with the technique accurately ensure clear risk descriptions identify and overcome sources of bias and resolve any disagreements that may arise.11.2.2.5 PROMPT LISTSA prompt list is a predetermined list of risk categories that might give rise to individual project risks and that could also act as sources of overall project risk. The prompt list can be used as a framework to aid the project team in idea generation when using risk identification techniques. The risk categories in the lowest level of the risk breakdown structure can be used as a prompt list for individual project risks. Some common strategic frameworks are more suitable for identifying sources of overall project risk for example PESTLE political economic social technological legal environmental TECOP technical environmental commercial operational political or VUCA volatility uncertainty complexity ambiguity.11.2.2.6 MEETINGSTo undertake risk identification the project team may conduct a specialized meeting often called a risk workshop. Most risk workshops include some form of brainstorming see Section 4.1.2.2 but other risk identification techniques may be included depending on the level of the risk process defined in the risk management plan. Use of a skilled facilitator will increase the effectiveness of the meeting. It is also essential to ensure that the right people participate in the risk workshop. On larger projects it may be appropriate to invite the project sponsor subject matter experts sellers representatives of the customer or other project stakeholders. Risk workshops for smaller projects may be restricted to a subset of the project team.