11.7.2.1 DATA ANALYSIS Data analysis techniques that can be used for this process include but are not limited to:Technical performance analysis. Technical performance analysis compares technical accomplishments during project execution to the schedule of technical achievement. It requires the definition of objective quantifiable measures of technical performance which can be used to compare actual results against targets. Such technical performance measures may include weight transaction times number of delivered defects storage capacity etc. Deviation can indicate the potential impact of threats or opportunities.Reserve analysis. Described in Section 7.2.2.6. Throughout execution of the project some individual project risks may occur with positive or negative impacts on budget or schedule contingency reserves. Reserve analysis compares the amount of the contingency reserves remaining to the amount of risk remaining at any time in the project in order to determine if the remaining reserve is adequate. This may be communicated using various graphical representations including a burndown chart.11.7.2.2 AUDITSDescribed in Section 8.2.2.5. Risk audits are a type of audit that may be used to consider the effectiveness of the risk management process. The project manager is responsible for ensuring that risk audits are performed at an appropriate frequency as defined in the project’s risk management plan. Risk audits may be included during routine project review meetings or may form part of a risk review meeting or the team may choose to hold separate risk audit meetings. The format for the risk audit and its objectives should be clearly defined before the audit is conducted. 11.7.2.3 MEETINGS
Meetings that can be used during this process include but are not limited to risk reviews. Risk reviews are scheduled
regularly and should examine and document the effectiveness of risk responses in dealing with overall project risk
and with identified individual project risks. Risk reviews may also result in identification of new individual project risks,
(including secondary risks that arise from agreed-upon risk responses), reassessment of current risks, the closing of
risks that are outdated, issues that have arisen as the result of risks that have occurred, and identification of lessons
to be learned for implementation in ongoing phases in the current project or in similar projects in the future. The risk
review may be conducted as part of a periodic project status meeting or a dedicated risk review meeting may be held,
as specified in the risk management plan.