11.7.1 MONITOR RISKS: INPUTS11.7.1.1 PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLANDescribed in Section 4.2.3.1. Project management plan components include but are not limited to the risk management plan. Described in Section 11.3.1.1. The risk management plan provides guidance on how and when risks should be reviewed which policies and procedures should be followed the roles and responsibilities in the monitoring process and reporting formats.11.7.1.2 PROJECT DOCUMENTSProject documents that should be considered as inputs for this process include but are not limited to:Issue log. Described in Section 4.3.3.3. The issue log is used to see if any of the open issues have been updated and necessitate an update to the risk register.Lessons learned register. Described in Section 4.4.3.1. Risk-related lessons from earlier in the project can be applied to later phases in the project.Risk register. Described in Section 11.2.3.1. The risk register has key inputs that include identified individual project risks risk owners agreed-upon risk responses and specific implementation actions. It may also provide other details including control actions for assessing the effectiveness of response plans symptoms and warning signs of risk residual and secondary risks and a watch list of low-priority risks.Risk report. Described in Section 11.2.3.2. The risk report includes an assessment of the current overall project risk exposure as well as the agreed-upon risk response strategy. It also describes the major individual risks with planned responses and risk owners.11.7.1.3 WORK PERFORMANCE DATA
Described in Section 4.3.3.2. Work performance data contains data on project status such as risk responses that
have been implemented, risks that have occurred, risks that are active and those that have been closed out.
11.7.1.4 WORK PERFORMANCE REPORTS
Described in Section 4 5.3.1. Work performance reports provide information from performance measurements that
can be analyzed to provide project work performance information including variance analysis, earned value data, and
forecasting data. This information could be relevant when monitoring performance-related risks.