Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis is the process of numerically analyzing the combined effect of identified individual project risks and other sources of uncertainty on overall project objectives. The key benefit of this process is that it quantifies overall project risk exposure and it can also provide additional quantitative risk information to support risk response planning. This process is not required for every project but where it is used it is performed throughout the project. The inputs and outputs of this process are depicted in Figure 11-11. Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis: Data Flow DiagramPerform Quantitative Risk Analysis is not required for all projects. Undertaking a robust analysis depends on the availability of high-quality data about individual project risks and other sources of uncertainty as well as a sound underlying project baseline for scope schedule and cost. Quantitative risk analysis usually requires specialized risk software and expertise in the development and interpretation of risk models. It also consumes additional time and cost. The use of quantitative risk analysis for a project will be specified in the project’s risk management plan. It is most likely appropriate for large or complex projects strategically important projects projects for which it is a contractual requirement or projects in which a key stakeholder requires it. Quantitative risk analysis is the only reliable method to assess overall project risk through evaluating the aggregated effect on project outcomes of all individual project risks and other sources of uncertainty.Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis uses information on individual project risks that have been assessed by the Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis process as having a significant potential to affect the project’s objectives.Outputs from Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis are used as inputs to the Plan Risk Responses process particularly in recommending responses to the level of overall project risk and key individual risks. A quantitative risk analysis may also be undertaken following the Plan Risk Responses process to determine the likely effectiveness of planned responses in reducing overall project risk exposure.