Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis is the process of prioritizing individual project risks for further analysis or action by assessing their probability of occurrence and impact as well as other characteristics. The key benefit of this process is that it focuses efforts on high-priority risks. This process is performed throughout the project. The inputs tools and techniques and outputs of the process are depicted in Figure 11-8. Figure 11-9 depicts the data ﬂow diagram for the process. Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis: Data Flow DiagramPerform Qualitative Risk Analysis assesses the priority of identified individual project risks using their probability of occurrence the corresponding impact on project objectives if the risks occur and other factors. Such assessments are subjective as they are based on perceptions of risk by the project team and other stakeholders. Effective assessment therefore requires explicit identification and management of the risk attitudes of key participants in the Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis process. Risk perception introduces bias into the assessment of identified risks so attention should be paid to identifying bias and correcting for it. Where a facilitator is used to support the Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis process addressing bias is a key part of the facilitator’s role. An evaluation of the quality of the available information on individual project risks also helps to clarify the assessment of each risk’s importance to the project. Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis establishes the relative priorities of individual project risks for Plan Risk Responses.
It identifies a risk owner for each risk who will take responsibility for planning an appropriate risk response and ensuring
that it is implemented. Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis also lays the foundation for Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis
if this process is required.
The Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis process is performed regularly throughout the project life cycle, as defined in
the risk management plan. Often, in an agile development environment, the Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis process is
conducted before the start of each iteration.