11.3.2.1 EXPERT JUDGMENTDescribed in Section 4.1.2.1. Expertise should be considered from individuals or groups with specialized knowledge or training in the following topics:Previous similar projects andQualitative risk analysis.Expert judgment is often obtained through facilitated risk workshops or interviews. The possibility of expert views being biased should be taken into account in this process.11.3.2.2 DATA GATHERING Data-gathering techniques that can be used for this process include but are not limited to interviews. Structured or semi-structured interviews Section 5.2.2.2 can be used to assess the probability and impacts of individual project risks as well as other factors. The interviewer should promote an environment of trust and confidentiality in the interview setting to encourage honest and unbiased assessments.11.3.2.3 DATA ANALYSISData analysis techniques that can be used during this process include but are not limited to:Risk data quality assessment. Risk data quality assessment evaluates the degree to which the data about individual project risks is accurate and reliable as a basis for qualitative risk analysis. The use of low-quality risk data may lead to a qualitative risk analysis that is of little use to the project. If data quality is unacceptable it may be necessary to gather better data. Risk data quality may be assessed via a questionnaire measuring the project’s stakeholder perceptions of various characteristics which may include completeness objectivity relevancy and timeliness. A weighted average of selected data quality characteristics can then be generated to give an overall quality score.Risk probability and impact assessment. Risk probability assessment considers the likelihood that a specific risk will occur. Risk impact assessment considers the potential effect on one or more project objectives such as schedule cost quality or performance. Impacts will be negative for threats and positive for opportunities. Probability and impact are assessed for each identified individual project risk. Risks can be assessed in interviews or meetings with participants selected for their familiarity with the types of risk recorded in the risk register. Project team members and knowledgeable persons external to the project are included. The level of probability for each risk and its impact on each objective are evaluated during the interview or meeting. Differences in the levels of probability and impact perceived by stakeholders are to be expected and such differences should be explored. Explanatory detail including assumptions justifying the levels assigned are also recorded. Risk probabilities and impacts are assessed using the definitions given in the risk management plan see Table 11-1. Risks with low probability and impact may be included within the risk register as part of a watch list for future monitoring.Assessment of other risk parameters. The project team may consider other characteristics of risk in addition to probability and impact when prioritizing individual project risks for further analysis and action. These characteristics may include but are not limited to:  Urgency. The period of time within which a response to the risk is to be implemented in order to be effective. A short period indicates high urgency. Proximity. The period of time before the risk might have an impact on one or more project objectives. A short period indicates high proximity. Dormancy. The period of time that may elapse after a risk has occurred before its impact is discovered. A short period indicates low dormancy. Manageability. The ease with which the risk owner or owning organization can manage the occurrence or impact of a risk. Where management is easy manageability is high. Controllability. The degree to which the risk owner or owning organization is able to control the risk’s outcome. Where the outcome can be easily controlled controllability is high. Detectability. The ease with which the results of the risk occurring or being about to occur can be detected and recognized. Where the risk occurrence can be detected easily detectability is high. Connectivity. The extent to which the risk is related to other individual project risks. Where a risk is connected to many other risks connectivity is high. Strategic impact. The potential for the risk to have a positive or negative effect on the organization’s strategic goals. Where the risk has a major effect on strategic goals strategic impact is high. Propinquity. The degree to which a risk is perceived to matter by one or more stakeholders. Where a risk is perceived as very significant propinquity is high.The consideration of some of these characteristics can provide a more robust prioritization of risks than is possible by only assessing probability and impact.11.3.2.4 INTERPERSONAL AND TEAM SKILLSInterpersonal and team skills that can be used for this process include but are not limited to facilitation see Section 4.1.2.3. Facilitation improves the effectiveness of the qualitative analysis of individual project risks. A skilled facilitator can help participants remain focused on the risk analysis task follow the method associated with the technique accurately reach consensus on assessments of probability and impacts identify and overcome sources of bias and resolve any disagreements that may arise.11.3.2.5 RISK CATEGORIZATIONRisks to the project can be categorized by sources of risk e.g. using the risk breakdown structure RBS; see Figure 11-4 the area of the project affected e.g. using the work breakdown structure WBS; see Figures 5-12 5-13 and 5-14 or other useful categories e.g. project phase project budget and roles and responsibilities to determine the areas of the project most exposed to the effects of uncertainty. Risks can also be categorized by common root causes. Risk categories that may be used for the project are defined in the risk management plan.Grouping risks into categories can lead to the development of more effective risk responses by focusing attention and effort on the areas of highest risk exposure or by developing generic risk responses to address groups of related risks.11.3.2.6 DATA REPRESENTATIONData representation techniques that can be used during this process include but are not limited to:Probability and impact matrix. A probability and impact matrix is a grid for mapping the probability of each risk occurrence and its impact on project objectives if that risk occurs. This matrix specifies combinations of probability and impact that allow individual project risks to be divided into priority groups see Figure 11-5. Risks can be prioritized for further analysis and planning of risk responses based on their probability and impacts. The probability of occurrence for each individual project risk is assessed as well as its impact on one or more project objectives if it does occur using definitions of probability and impact for the project as specified in the risk management plan. Individual project risks are assigned to a priority level based on the combination of their assessed probability and impact using a probability and impact matrix.An organization can assess a risk separately for each objective e.g. cost time and scope by having a separate probability and impact matrix for each. Alternatively it may develop ways to determine one overall priority level for each risk either by combining assessments for different objectives or by taking the highest priority level regardless of which objective is affected.Hierarchical charts. Where risks have been categorized using more than two parameters the probability and impact matrix cannot be used and other graphical representations are required. For example a bubble chart displays three dimensions of data where each risk is plotted as a disk bubble and the three parameters are represented by the x-axis value the y-axis value and the bubble size. An example bubble chart is shown in Figure 11-10 with detectability and proximity plotted on the x and y axes and impact value represented by bubble size. Figure 11-10. Example Bubble Chart Showing Detectability Proximity and Impact Value11.3.2.7 MEETINGSTo undertake qualitative risk analysis the project team may conduct a specialized meeting often called a risk workshop dedicated to the discussion of identified individual project risks. The goals of this meeting include the review of previously identified risks assessment of probability and impacts and possibly other risk parameters categorization and prioritization. A risk owner who will be responsible for planning an appropriate risk response and for reporting progress on managing the risk will be allocated to each individual project risk as part of the Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis process. The meeting may start by reviewing and confirming the probability and impact scales to be used for the analysis. The meeting may also identify additional risks during the discussion and these should be recorded for analysis. Use of a skilled facilitator will increase the effectiveness of the meeting.