11.4.2.1 EXPERT JUDGMENT Described in Section 4.1.2.1. Expertise should be considered from individuals or groups with specialized knowledge or training in the following topics:Translating information on individual project risks and other sources of uncertainty into numeric inputs for the quantitative risk analysis modelSelecting the most appropriate representation of uncertainty to model particular risks or other sources of uncertaintyModeling techniques that are appropriate in the context of the projectIdentifying which tools would be most suitable for the selected modeling techniques andInterpreting the outputs of quantitative risk analysis. 11.4.2.2 DATA GATHERINGInterviews see Section 5.2.2.2 may be used to generate inputs for the quantitative risk analysis drawing on inputs that include individual project risks and other sources of uncertainty. This is particularly useful where information is required from experts. The interviewer should promote an environment of trust and confidentiality during the interview to encourage honest and unbiased contributions.11.4.2.3 INTERPERSONAL AND TEAM SKILLSInterpersonal and team skills that can be used for this process include but are not limited to facilitation see Section 4.1.2.3. A skilled facilitator is useful for gathering input data during a dedicated risk workshop involving project team members and other stakeholders. Facilitated workshops can improve effectiveness by establishing a clear understanding of the purpose of the workshop building consensus among participants ensuring continued focus on the task and using creative approaches to deal with interpersonal conﬂict or sources of bias.11.4.2.4 REPRESENTATIONS OF UNCERTAINTYQuantitative risk analysis requires inputs to a quantitative risk analysis model that reﬂect individual project risks and other sources of uncertainty.Where the duration cost or resource requirement for a planned activity is uncertain the range of possible values can be represented in the model as a probability distribution. This may take several forms. The most commonly used are triangular normal lognormal beta uniform or discrete distributions. Care should be taken when selecting an appropriate probability distribution to reﬂect the range of possible values for the planned activity.Individual project risks may be covered by probability distributions. Alternatively risks may be included in the model as probabilistic branches where optional activities are added to the model to represent the time and/or cost impact of the risk should it occur and the chance that these activities actually occur in a particular simulation run matches the risk’s probability. Branches are most useful for risks that might occur independently of any planned activity. Where risks are related for example with a common cause or a logical dependency correlation is used in the model to indicate this relationship.Other sources of uncertainty may also be represented using branches to describe alternative paths through the project.11.4.2.5 DATA ANALYSISData analysis techniques that can be used during this process include but are not limited to:Simulation. Quantitative risk analysis uses a model that simulates the combined effects of individual project risks and other sources of uncertainty to evaluate their potential impact on achieving project objectives. Simulations are typically performed using a Monte Carlo analysis. When running a Monte Carlo analysis for cost risk the simulation uses the project cost estimates. When running a Monte Carlo analysis for schedule risk the schedule network diagram and duration estimates are used. An integrated quantitative cost-schedule risk analysis uses both inputs. The output is a quantitative risk analysis model.Computer software is used to iterate the quantitative risk analysis model several thousand times. The input values e.g. cost estimates duration estimates or occurrence of probabilistic branches are chosen at random for each iteration. Outputs represent the range of possible outcomes for the project e.g. project end date project cost at completion. Typical outputs include a histogram presenting the number of iterations where a particular outcome resulted from the simulation or a cumulative probability distribution S-curve representing the probability of achieving any particular outcome or less. An example S-curve from a Monte Carlo cost risk analysis is shown in Figure 11-13.For a quantitative schedule risk analysis it is also possible to conduct a criticality analysis that determines which elements of the risk model have the greatest effect on the project critical path. A criticality index is calculated for each element in the risk model which gives the frequency with which that element appears on the critical path during the simulation usually expressed as a percentage. The output from a criticality analysis allows the project team to focus risk response planning efforts on those activities with the highest potential effect on the overall schedule performance of the project.Sensitivity analysis. Sensitivity analysis helps to determine which individual project risks or other sources of uncertainty have the most potential impact on project outcomes. It correlates variations in project outcomes with variations in elements of the quantitative risk analysis model.One typical display of sensitivity analysis is the tornado diagram which presents the calculated correlation coefficient for each element of the quantitative risk analysis model that can inﬂuence the project outcome. This can include individual project risks project activities with high degrees of variability or specific sources of ambiguity. Items are ordered by descending strength of correlation giving the typical tornado appearance.  An example tornado diagram is shown in Figure 11-14. Decision trees are used to support selection of the best of several alternative courses of action. Alternative paths through the project are shown in the decision tree using branches representing different decisions or events each of which can have associated costs and related individual project risks including both threats and opportunities. The end-points of branches in the decision tree represent the outcome from following that particular path which can be negative or positive.The decision tree is evaluated by calculating the expected monetary value of each branch allowing the optimal path to be selected. An example decision tree is shown in Figure 11-15.Influence diagrams. Influence diagrams are graphical aids to decision making under uncertainty. An influence
diagram represents a project or situation within the project as a set of entities, outcomes, and influences, together
with the relationships and effects between them. Where an element in the influence diagram is uncertain as a
result of the existence of individual project risks or other sources of uncertainty, this can be represented in the
influence diagram using ranges or probability distributions. The influence diagram is then evaluated using a
simulation technique, such as Monte Carlo analysis, to indicate which elements have the greatest influence
on key outcomes. Outputs from an influence diagram are similar to other quantitative risk analysis methods,
including S-curves and tornado diagrams.