11.4.1.1 PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLAN Described in Section 4.2.3.1. Project management plan components include but are not limited to:Risk management plan. Described in Section 11.1.3.1. The risk management plan specifies whether quantitative risk analysis is required for the project. It also details the resources available for the analysis and the expected frequency of analyses.Scope baseline. Described in Section 5.4.3.1. The scope baseline describes the starting point from which the effect of individual project risks and other sources of uncertainty are evaluated.Schedule baseline. Described in Section 6.5.3.1. The schedule baseline describes the starting point from which the effect of individual project risks and other sources of uncertainty can be evaluated.Cost baseline. Described in Section 7.3.3.1. The cost baseline describes the starting point from which the effect of individual project risks and other sources of uncertainty can be evaluated.11.4.1.2 PROJECT DOCUMENTSProject documents that can be considered as inputs for this process include but are not limited to:Assumption log. Described in Section 4.1.3.2. Assumptions may form inputs to the quantitative risk analysis if they are assessed as posing a risk to project objectives. The effect of constraints may also be modeled during a quantitative risk analysis.Basis of estimates. Described in Sections 6.4.3.2 and 7.2.3.2. The basis of estimates used in the planning of the project may be reﬂected in variability modeled during a quantitative risk analysis process. This may include information on the estimate’s purpose classification assumed accuracy methodology and source.Cost estimates. Described in Section 7.2.3.1. Cost estimates provide the starting point from which cost variability is evaluated.Cost forecasts. Described in Section 7.4.3.2. Forecasts such as the project’s estimate to complete ETC estimate at completion EAC budget at completion BAC and to-complete performance index TCPI may be compared to the results of a quantitative cost risk analysis to determine the confidence level associated with achieving these targets.Duration estimates. Described in Section 6.4.3.1. Duration estimates provide the starting point from which schedule variability is evaluated.Milestone list. Described in Section 6.2.3.3. Significant events in the project define the schedule targets against which the results of a quantitative schedule risk analysis are compared in order to determine the confidence level associated with achieving these targets. 

Resource requirements. Described in Section 9.2.3.1. Resource requirements provide the starting point from
which variability is evaluated.
Risk register. Described in Section 11.2.3.1. The risk register contains details of individual project risks to be
used as input for quantitative risk analysis.
Risk report. Described in Section 11.2.3.2. The risk report describes sources of overall project risk and the
current overall project risk status.
Schedule forecasts. Described in Section 6.6.3.2. Forecasts may be compared to the results of a quantitative
schedule risk analysis to determine the confidence level associated with achieving these targets.
11.4.1.3 ENTERPRISE ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS
The enterprise environmental factors that can influence the Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis process include but
are not limited to:
Industry studies of similar projects, and
Published material, including commercial risk databases or checklists.
11.4.1.4 ORGANIZATIONAL PROCESS ASSETS
The organizational process assets that can influence the Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis process include
information from similar completed projects.