11.5.3.1 CHANGE REQUESTS Described in Section 4.3.3.4. Planned risk responses may result in a change request to the cost and schedule baselines or other components of the project management plan. Change requests are processed for review and disposition through the Perform Integrated Change Control process Section 4.6.11.5.3.2 PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLAN UPDATESAny change to the project management plan goes through the organization’s change control process via a change request. Components that may require a change request for the project management plan include but are not limited to:Schedule management plan. Described in Section 6.1.3.1. Changes to the schedule management plan such as changes to resource loading and leveling or updates to the schedule strategy are incorporated.Cost management plan. Described in Section 7.1.3.1. Changes to the cost management plan such as changes to cost accounting tracking and reports as well as updates to the budget strategy and how contingency reserves are consumed are incorporated.Quality management plan. Described in Section 8.1.3.1. Changes to the quality management plan such as changes to approaches for meeting requirements quality management approaches or quality control processes are incorporated.Resource management plan. Described in Section 9.1.3.1. Changes to the resource management plan such as changes to resource allocation as well as updates to the resource strategy are incorporated.Procurement management plan. Described in Section 12.1.3.1. Changes to the procurement management plan such as alterations in the make-or-buy decision or contract types are incorporated.Scope baseline. Described in Section 5.4.3.1. Changes in the scope baseline are incorporated in response to approved changes in scope that may arise from agreed-upon risk responses.Schedule baseline. Described in Section 6.5.3.1. Changes in the schedule baseline are incorporated in response to approved changes in schedule estimates that may arise from agreed-upon risk responses.Cost baseline. Described in Section 7.3.3.1. Changes in the cost baseline are incorporated in response to approved changes in cost estimates that may arise from agreed-upon risk responses. 11.5.3.3 PROJECT DOCUMENTS UPDATESProject documents that may be updated as a result of carrying out this process include but are not limited to:Assumption log. Described in Section 4.1.3.2. During the Plan Risk Responses process new assumptions may be made new constraints may be identified and existing assumptions or constraints may be revisited and changed. The assumption log should be updated with this new information.Cost forecasts. Described in Section 7.4.3.2. Cost forecasts may change as a result of planned risk responses.Lessons learned register. Described in Section 4.4.3.1. The lessons learned register is updated with information about risk responses that may be useful for future phases of the project or future projects.Project schedule. Described in Section 6.5.3.2. Activities relating to agreed-upon risk responses may be added to the project schedule.Project team assignments. Described in Section 9.3.3.2. Once the responses are confirmed the necessary resources should be allocated to each action associated with a risk response plan. These resources include suitably qualified and experienced personnel to execute the agreed-upon action usually within the project team a specific budget and time allowance for the action and any required technical resources to complete the action.Risk register. Described in Section 11.2.3.1. The risk register is updated when appropriate risk responses are chosen and agreed upon. Updates to the risk register may include but are not limited to: Agreed-upon response strategies; Specific actions to implement the chosen response strategy; Trigger conditions symptoms and warning signs of a risk occurrence; Budget and schedule activities required to implement the chosen responses; Contingency plans and risk triggers that call for their execution; Fallback plans for use when a risk that has occurred and the primary response proves to be inadequate; Residual risks that are expected to remain after planned responses have been taken as well as those that have been deliberately accepted; and Secondary risks that arise as a direct outcome of implementing a risk response.Risk report. Described in Section 11.2.3.2. The risk report may be updated to present agreed-upon responses to the current overall project risk exposure and high-priority risks together with the expected changes that may be expected as a result of implementing these responses.