11.1.3 PLAN RISK MANAGEMENT: OUTPUTS11.1.3.1 RISK MANAGEMENT PLANThe risk management plan is a component of the project management plan that describes how risk management activities will be structured and performed. The risk management plan may include some or all of the following elements:Risk strategy. Describes the general approach to managing risk on this project.Methodology. Defines the specific approaches tools and data sources that will be used to perform risk management on the project.Roles and responsibilities. Defines the lead support and risk management team members for each type of activity described in the risk management plan and clarifies their responsibilities.Funding. Identifies the funds needed to perform activities related to Project Risk Management. Establishes protocols for the application of contingency and management reserves.Timing. Defines when and how often the Project Risk Management processes will be performed throughout the project life cycle and establishes risk management activities for inclusion into the project schedule.Risk categories. Provide a means for grouping individual project risks. A common way to structure risk categories is with a risk breakdown structure RBS which is a hierarchical representation of potential sources of risk see example in Figure 11-4. An RBS helps the project team consider the full range of sources from which individual project risks may arise. This can be useful when identifying risks or when categorizing identified risks. The organization may have a generic RBS to be used for all projects or there may be several RBS frameworks for different types of projects or the project may develop a tailored RBS. Where an RBS is not used an organization may use a custom risk categorization framework which may take the form of a simple list of categories or a structure based on project objectives. Extract from Sample Risk Breakdown Structure RBS Stakeholder risk appetite. The risk appetites of key stakeholders on the project are recorded in the risk management plan as they inform the details of the Plan Risk Management process. In particular stakeholder risk appetite should be expressed as measurable risk thresholds around each project objective. These thresholds will determine the acceptable level of overall project risk exposure and they are also used to inform the definitions of probability and impacts to be used when assessing and prioritizing individual project risks.Definitions of risk probability and impacts. Definitions of risk probability and impact levels are specific to the project context and reﬂect the risk appetite and thresholds of the organization and key stakeholders. The project may generate specific definitions of probability and impact levels or it may start with general definitions provided by the organization. The number of levels reﬂects the degree of detail required for the Project Risk Management process with more levels used for a more detailed risk approach typically five levels and fewer for a simple process usually three. Table 11-1 provides an example of definitions of probability and impacts against three project objectives. These scales can be used to evaluate both threats and opportunities by interpreting the impact definitions as negative for threats delay additional cost and performance shortfall and positive for opportunities reduced time or cost and performance enhancement. Prioritization rules may be specified by the organization in advance of the project and be included in organizational process assets or they may be tailored to the specific project. Opportunities and threats are represented in a common probability and impact matrix using positive definitions of impact for opportunities and negative impact definitions for threats. Descriptive terms such as very high high medium low and very low or numeric values can be used for probability and impact. Where numeric values are used these can be multiplied to give a probability-impact score for each risk which allows the relative priority of individual risks to be evaluated within each priority level. An example probability and impact matrix is presented in Figure 11-5 which also shows a possible numeric risk scoring scheme.Figure 11-5. Example Probability and Impact Matrix with Scoring SchemeReporting formats. Reporting formats define how the outcomes of the Project Risk Management process will be documented analyzed and communicated. This section of the risk management plan describes the content and format of the risk register and the risk report as well as any other required outputs from the Project Risk Management processes.Tracking. Tracking documents how risk activities will be recorded and how risk management processes will be audited.