11.5.2 PLAN RISK RESPONSES: TOOLS AND TECHNIQUES11.5.2.1 EXPERT JUDGMENTDescribed in Section 4.1.2.1. Expertise should be considered from individuals or groups with specialized knowledge in the following topics:Threat response strategiesOpportunity response strategiesContingent response strategies andOverall project risk response strategies.Expert input may be sought from individuals with particular subject matter expertise relevant to a specific individual project risk for example where specialist technical knowledge is required. 11.5.2.2 DATA GATHERINGData-gathering techniques that can be used for this process include but are not limited to interviews see Section 5.2.2.2. Development of responses to individual project risks and overall project risk may be undertaken during structured or semi-structured interviews see Section 5.2.2.2 with risk owners. Other stakeholders may also be interviewed if necessary. The interviewer should promote an environment of trust and confidentiality in the interview setting to encourage honest and unbiased decisions.11.5.2.3 INTERPERSONAL AND TEAM SKILLSInterpersonal and team skills that can be used for this process includes but are not limited to facilitation see Section 4.1.2.3. The use of facilitation improves the effectiveness of developing responses to individual project risks and overall project risk. A skilled facilitator can help risk owners understand the risk identify and compare alternative possible risk response strategies choose an appropriate response strategy and identify and overcome sources of bias.11.5.2.4 STRATEGIES FOR THREATSFive alternative strategies may be considered for dealing with threats as follows:Escalate. Escalation is appropriate when the project team or the project sponsor agrees that a threat is outside the scope of the project or that the proposed response would exceed the project manager’s authority. Escalated risks are managed at the program level portfolio level or other relevant part of the organization and not on the project level. The project manager determines who should be notified about the threat and communicates the details to that person or part of the organization. It is important that ownership of escalated threats is accepted by the relevant party in the organization. Threats are usually escalated to the level that matches the objectives that would be affected if the threat occurred. Escalated threats are not monitored further by the project team after escalation although they may be recorded in the risk register for information.Avoid. Risk avoidance is when the project team acts to eliminate the threat or protect the project from its impact. It may be appropriate for high-priority threats with a high probability of occurrence and a large negative impact. Avoidance may involve changing some aspect of the project management plan or changing the objective that is in jeopardy in order to eliminate the threat entirely reducing its probability of occurrence to zero. The risk owner may also take action to isolate the project objectives from the risk’s impact if it were to occur. Examples of avoidance actions may include removing the cause of a threat extending the schedule changing the project strategy or reducing scope. Some risks can be avoided by clarifying requirements obtaining information improving communication or acquiring expertise.Transfer. Transfer involves shifting ownership of a threat to a third party to manage the risk and to bear the impact if the threat occurs. Risk transfer often involves payment of a risk premium to the party taking on the threat. Transfer can be achieved by a range of actions which include but are not limited to the use of insurance performance bonds warranties guarantees etc. Agreements may be used to transfer ownership and liability for specified risks to another party.Mitigate. In risk mitigation action is taken to reduce the probability of occurrence and/or impact of a threat. Early mitigation action is often more effective than trying to repair the damage after the threat has occurred. Adopting less complex processes conducting more tests or choosing a more stable seller are examples of mitigation actions. Mitigation may involve prototype development see Section 5.2.2.8 to reduce the risk of scaling up from a bench-scale model of a process or product. Where it is not possible to reduce probability a mitigation response might reduce the impact by targeting factors that drive the severity. For example designing redundancy into a system may reduce the impact from a failure of the original component.Accept. Risk acceptance acknowledges the existence of a threat but no proactive action is taken. This strategy may be appropriate for low-priority threats and it may also be adopted where it is not possible or cost-effective to address a threat in any other way. Acceptance can be either active or passive. The most common active acceptance strategy is to establish a contingency reserve including amounts of time money or resources to handle the threat if it occurs. Passive acceptance involves no proactive action apart from periodic review of the threat to ensure that it does not change significantly. 11.5.2.5 STRATEGIES FOR OPPORTUNITIESFive alternative strategies may be considered for dealing with opportunities as follows:Escalate. This risk response strategy is appropriate when the project team or the project sponsor agrees that an opportunity is outside the scope of the project or that the proposed response would exceed the project manager’s authority. Escalated opportunities are managed at the program level portfolio level or other relevant part of the organization and not on the project level. The project manager determines who should be notified about the opportunity and communicates the details to that person or part of the organization. It is important that ownership of escalated opportunities is accepted by the relevant party in the organization. Opportunities are usually escalated to the level that matches the objectives that would be affected if the opportunity occurred. Escalated opportunities are not monitored further by the project team after escalation although they may be recorded in the risk register for information.Exploit. The exploit strategy may be selected for high-priority opportunities where the organization wants to ensure that the opportunity is realized. This strategy seeks to capture the benefit associated with a particular opportunity by ensuring that it definitely happens increasing the probability of occurrence to %. Examples of exploiting responses may include assigning an organization’s most talented resources to the project to reduce the time to completion or using new technologies or technology upgrades to reduce cost and duration.Share. Sharing involves transferring ownership of an opportunity to a third party so that it shares some of the benefit if the opportunity occurs. It is important to select the new owner of a shared opportunity carefully so they are best able to capture the opportunity for the benefit of the project. Risk sharing often involves payment of a risk premium to the party taking on the opportunity. Examples of sharing actions include forming risk-sharing partnerships teams special-purpose companies or joint ventures.Enhance. The enhance strategy is used to increase the probability and/or impact of an opportunity. Early enhancement action is often more effective than trying to improve the benefit after the opportunity has occurred. The probability of occurrence of an opportunity may be increased by focusing attention on its causes. Where it is not possible to increase probability an enhancement response might increase the impact by targeting factors that drive the size of the potential benefit. Examples of enhancing opportunities include adding more resources to an activity to finish early.Accept. Accepting an opportunity acknowledges its existence but no proactive action is taken. This strategy may be appropriate for low-priority opportunities and it may also be adopted where it is not possible or cost-effective to address an opportunity in any other way. Acceptance can be either active or passive. The most common active acceptance strategy is to establish a contingency reserve including amounts of time money or resources to take advantage of the opportunity if it occurs. Passive acceptance involves no proactive action apart from periodic review of the opportunity to ensure that it does not change significantly.11.5.2.6 CONTINGENT RESPONSE STRATEGIESSome responses are designed for use only if certain events occur. For some risks it is appropriate for the project team to make a response plan that will only be executed under certain predefined conditions if it is believed that there will be sufficient warning to implement the plan. Events that trigger the contingency response such as missing intermediate milestones or gaining higher priority with a seller should be defined and tracked. Risk responses identified using this technique are often called contingency plans or fallback plans and include identified triggering events that set the plans in effect.11.5.2.7 STRATEGIES FOR OVERALL PROJECT RISKRisk responses should be planned and implemented not only for individual project risks but also to address overall project risk. The same risk response strategies that are used to deal with individual project risks can also be applied to overall project risk:Avoid. Where the level of overall project risk is significantly negative and outside the agreed-upon risk thresholds for the project an avoid strategy may be adopted. This involves taking focused action to reduce the negative effect of uncertainty on the project as a whole and bring the project back within the thresholds. An example of avoidance at the overall project level would include removal of high-risk elements of scope from the project. Where it is not possible to bring the project back within the thresholds the project may be canceled. This represents the most extreme degree of risk avoidance and it should be used only if the overall level of threat is and will remain unacceptable.Exploit. Where the level of overall project risk is significantly positive and outside the agreed-upon risk thresholds for the project an exploit strategy may be adopted. This involves taking focused action to capture the positive effect of uncertainty on the project as a whole. An example of exploiting at the overall project level would include addition of high-benefit elements of scope to the project to add value or benefits to stakeholders. Alternatively the risk thresholds for the project may be modified with the agreement of key stakeholders in order to embrace the opportunity.Transfer/share. If the level of overall project risk is high but the organization is unable to address it effectively a third party may be involved to manage the risk on behalf of the organization. Where overall project risk is negative a transfer strategy is required which may involve payment of a risk premium. In the case of high positive overall project risk ownership may be shared in order to reap the associated benefits. Examples of both transfer and share strategies for overall project risk include but are not limited to setting up a collaborative business structure in which the buyer and the seller share the overall project risk launching a joint venture or special-purpose company or subcontracting key elements of the project. Mitigate/enhance. These strategies involve changing the level of overall project risk to optimize the chances of achieving the project’s objectives. The mitigation strategy is used where overall project risk is negative and enhancement applies when it is positive. Examples of mitigation or enhancement strategies include replanning the project changing the scope and boundaries of the project modifying project priority changing resource allocations adjusting delivery times etc.Accept. Where no proactive risk response strategy is possible to address overall project risk the organization may choose to continue with the project as currently defined even if overall project risk is outside the agreed-upon thresholds. Acceptance can be either active or passive. The most common active acceptance strategy is to establish an overall contingency reserve for the project including amounts of time money or resources to be used if the project exceeds its thresholds. Passive acceptance involves no proactive action apart from periodic review of the level of overall project risk to ensure that it does not change significantly.11.5.2.8 DATA ANALYSISA number of alternative risk response strategies may be considered. Data analysis techniques that can be used to select a preferred risk response strategy include but are not limited to:Alternatives analysis. A simple comparison of the characteristics and requirements of alternative risk response options can lead to a decision on which response is most appropriate.Cost-benefit analysis. If the impact of an individual project risk can be quantified in monetary terms then the cost-effectiveness of alternative risk response strategies can be determined using cost-benefit analysis see Section 8.1.2.3. The ratio of change in impact level divided by implementation cost gives the cost effectiveness of the response strategy with a higher ratio indicating a more effective response.11.5.2.9 DECISION MAKINGDecision-making techniques that can be used to select a risk response strategy include but are not limited to multicriteria decision analysis described in Section 8.1.2.4. One or more risk response strategies may be under consideration. Decision-making techniques can help prioritize risk response strategies. Multicriteria decision analysis uses a decision matrix to provide a systematic approach for establishing key decision criteria evaluating and ranking alternatives and selecting a preferred option. Criteria for risk response selection may include but are not limited to cost of response likely effectiveness of response in changing probability and/or impact resource availability timing constraints urgency proximity and dormancy level of impact if the risk occurs effect of response on related risks introduction of secondary risks etc. Different strategies may be selected later in the project if the original choice proves to be ineffective.